#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 1cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\headheight 0cm
\headsep 0cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
What is the Exponential Family? (Quora)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I'll give a different perspective on the exponential family.
 If you visit the wiki page, you'll read its definition and its wonderfully
 general properties.
 That's all well and good, but it doesn't well represent how it's useful
 to a data scientist.
 I'll try to do that here.
 I'll avoid some typical extensions, because they distract from a good starting
 point.
 I'll start with a real simple problem, how the exponential family helps
 in that circumstance and how it can, in fact, help in more broader circumstance
s.
 After all this, you should be able to put this knowledge in your pocket
 and actually use the exponential family in all it's general glory.
 Now..
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[Insert Vegeta picture with the let us begin caption]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Let's say my data is a vector of real values scalars 
\begin_inset Formula $\{x_{i}\}_{i=1}^{N}$
\end_inset

 and I *suspect* it's normally distributed.
 The goal is to determine *which* normal distribution it comes from.
 This might sound trivial - the empirical mean/variance tell us which normal
 distribution.
 But that answer is representative of the broader picture.
 What we are really doing is answering the question:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

What are the parameters of the normal distribution that maximize the data
 I'm seeing?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the simple case of the normal distribution, we *happen* to have a way
 to calculate that answer immediately from the data.
 But we don't always.
 So let's handicap
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you'd like to estimate the parameters of the normal distribution, you
 do the typical routine: the mean is the average and the variance is the
 empirical variance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you know how to approach this, forget your approach!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Let's define it.
 We seek to define some probability distribution over a vector of observations.
 We do that with this magical device:
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
p(\mathbf{x}|\boldsymbol{\theta})=\frac{1}{Z(\boldsymbol{\theta})}h(\mathbf{x})e^{T(\mathbf{x})\cdot\boldsymbol{\theta}}
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
